# INF 502 - PA1
Programming Assignment 1 for INF 502.

This assignment will give you some practice with basic Python structures, file input and output, 
and exceptions in the context of writing a basic encryption program that implements the Caesar cipher. 

I hope you enjoy the problem.

## DNA Similarity
Measuring the similarity betweenn different sequences of DNA may tell us how related the owners of those sequences are. Here is an example:


* <span style="font-family:Courier New">SEQUENCE 1 --> A  C  T  G</span>  **A**  **T**  C  A  T
* SEQUENCE 2 --> C  T  A  **G**  **A**  **T**  T  C  A

A molecule of DNA consists of two chains made up of repeating subunits called nucleotides. There are four different types of nucleotides in DNA: adenine (A), thymine (T), guanine (G), and cytosine (C) [1]. Programmatically, DNA we can have represent it as a string, where each character must be one of A, G, C, or T.

To measure similarity, we can simply compare the alignment between two sequences of DNA checking each position (pairwise comparison)




“Global” means we will use the entirety of each sequence of DNA. “Alignment” means we are trying to align the sequences of DNA such that some score is maximized based upon how many matches / mismatches / gaps we have between the strands. By aligning the DNA sequences pairwise, we can create gaps in between nucleotides to create better alignments. We’ll get more into that in a moment. There are other ways of assessing DNA similarity, and I may cover some of them in a future article, but for now we’ll stick with global alignment.




1. http://knowgenetics.org/dna-and-proteins/
